Don Norris, a photographer from California that moved to Australia and is the founder of Australia’s most popular surfing website, stated that there are some genres of photography where “a high level of manipulation aimed at producing perfection has long been the general practice” which includes fashion and product photography (Norris, Don). Even though it has been traditionally known that these fields of photography have a high level of post-processing, I think everything is okay until that photographer distorts reality by for example, changing the body appearance of a person. Ashley Brown, who has a JD with a concentration in Intellectual Property and has worked with many prestigious companies in the fashion industry, wrote in her article that Photoshop has given the ability to turn a photo of an average looking model into a “Barbie girl, in Barbie world” (Brown 97). She goes on to say that creating a fake idealistic photograph of a model creates an illusion of reality which is not acceptable in fashion photography. In certain fields of photography, like journalism, the rules are must stricter. Journalistic photography is much stricter because it plays an important role in documenting history. The New York Times writer, David Campbell, argues that crushing the black levels or cropping a photograph is breaking the ethics of photography because these can hide or get rid of something that was captured (Campbell, David). This is a very extreme view of photography, and even in photojournalism is a minority view. I believe a photographer can have a certain style to their photographs, and certainly that changing the black levels to increase the overall photo’s contrast is entirely okay. Also, I believe that cropping a photo is perfectly okay, especially to create a better composition; however, in photojournalism, it can be seen as cutting out something. The writer of the article about the ethics of photo editing in photojournalism holds a less strict view of post-processing compared to David Campbell’s view. This writer states that color correcting, cropping, exposure compensation, eliminating irrelevant material, and even local adjustments all are okay in the context of photojournalism if the impact is the make the photo more true to life (Ethically Editing). I agree more closely with the second writer because these small edits can serve to set the photographer apart from the “auto” processed photos from everyone else. Therefore, as long as the subject of the photo stays the same, and nothing important is cut out of the photo (including masking) in this context of journalism, then I think it is okay.