Nasim Mansurov, who is a professional photographer based out of Denver and recognized as a leading educator in digital photography, said that he supports many types of post-processing “as long as it looks natural at the end” (Mansurov, Nasim). The problem is that what is considered natural. I believe that making color adjustments, removing camera spots or dust, creating local adjustments, bringing up the shadows, and using split toning are all acceptable things to do. A local adjustment is when part of a photo is processed slightly differently, or otherwise known as dodge and burn. Many photographers believe that dodge and burning a photo is not acceptable because it only changes part of a photo. However, I believe that it is perfectly okay because it can bring out more details, increase the dynamic range, increase contrast, and many other things to make your photo better. Bruce Warren, who is a well published photographer in the film days, explains a post-processing technique for film called bleaching. He describes it as lightening certain parts of the photo by applying photographic bleaches with a brush (Warren 331). This is exactly where the digital technique of dodge and burn originated from. These are all part of the tools that I believe a photographer can use to create their own style. This is why photography is as much of an art form as it is a way of documenting a moment in time. Since it is an art form, it is really mostly up to the photographer to decide what is acceptable to them. The problem is whatever looks okay and natural to one photographer may be too much processing for another. An astrophotographer Jeryy Lodriguss brings up a good point that “when we take a picture we do not make a perfectly objective recording of reality. What we make is an interpretation of reality” (Lodriguss, Jerry). Every photographer sees the world not only through the camera lens, but through his or her eyes. There is no right way or view of how the world should be captured; therefore, it is up to the photographer to determine how to capture it. This not only includes how to frame and exposure the shot, but also whether the colors should look nice and vibrant or desaturated and muted. Color is a very subjective thing because it is about how the photographer’s mind’s eye sees the colors in the composition which can be completely different from another person. That is why different color correcting styles by different photographers are so unique. This all depends on the atmosphere, mood, and feelings the photographer wants to evoke through his or her photograph.