Film photography eventually paved the way for digital photography. Richard Trenholm, who discovered film photography through a work-experience course and now is a writer for CNET, talks about some of the history of photography. The first digital camera was created in the 1970s, but this idea of digital photographs did not really take off until the 1990s when digital cameras became more available for the general consumer market. Also in 1990, Adobe Photoshop 1.0 was released (Trenholm, Richard). This pixel based color editor was the first piece of software of its kind, and quickly gained attention from artists and photographers alike. Photoshop soon became the image editing standard because of its powerful tools and ease of access to the general public. The first versions of Photoshop ran only on the Macintosh computer by Apple; since this was a mass marketed consumer based computer, many people instantly had access to this new piece of software. It only became a matter of time before photographers realized the power of digital photography and switched from film. Rob Wood, who is an online author and photographer, stated that Photoshop “has basically replaced the darkroom as the modern way in which photographers tweak their imagery” (Wood, Rob). I fully agree that this piece of software became a way for photographers to make the transition to digital photography without losing their creative processing techniques. However, the digital age that brought new digital cameras and powerful editing software did not fundamentally change how photographers manipulated their photos; it just gave access to many photographers because it instantly became much more widely available. Today, the camera still fundamentally works the same except with a digital sensor, and photographers still manipulate and process their photos in a similar fashion. These tools now have expanded the possibilities of the photographer which brings up ethical questions of abusing the power of post-processing.