This issue of post-processing a photo has its origins way before the digital age of photography. It can be traced back to days of film photography. Although film photography was not the first type of photography invented, it was the first time that processing a photo was introduced. A film camera works just like a digital camera nowadays except that there is a light sensitive film at the back of the camera that is momentarily exposed to light through the lens causing the chemicals on the film to react. Then, the film is processed in a so-called darkroom. Chris Woodford, who holds a master’s degree in natural sciences with a specialization in physics from Cambridge University, explains how photographic film is developed. In short, the film is put into an acidic solution (called the developer), then neutralized in another solution (called the stop bath), and made permanent in a chemical solution known as the fixer (or hypo). After the negative is created through this process, then the colors are inversed to create the positive print onto a photograph paper using an enlarger. Now, most people have a photo lab to do this tedious process for them because they most likely do not have the proper equipment or time to do this. These photo labs would do the exact same process on many photos from many different people at a time; therefore, creating the same effect on each photo. This is akin to the auto mode on digital cameras today because it is a similar algorithm that processes the photo in camera across all cameras. However, the enthusiastic film photographers, who wanted to stand out of the crowd of “auto” processed films, developed their own film. Therefore, they were in charge of the time their film spent developing in the chemicals or the temperature of the liquids. An article that was published through the University of Vermont states that when developing film for longer or higher temperatures, “the more silver halide crystals that will be converted to metallic silver and the denser and darker the negative will be” (How Chemicals). This gives a good insight on why a slight temperature change in the liquid or a slight time change could affect the contrast, highlights, blacks, etc. of the photo. These more advanced film photographers took advantage of these chemical properties to create a different style of “processing” photos. This was the beginning of post-processing photos. One unique and popular style of processing film involved swapping the chemicals in the develop process. Typically, color negative film uses a chemical called C-41 to process it and color slide film uses E-6 chemicals to process it. However, many photographers reversed the uses by using C-41 to process color slide film and E-6 to process color negative film which is called cross-processing (What the Hell Is). This reproduced different color tones on the photo than people were typical of seeing.